.TH "chbind" "8" "0.1.0" "Klavs Klavsen <kl@vsen.dk>" "System Administration"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
chbind \- The chbind utility is used to lock a process and its children into using a specific IP number/Interface. 
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
chbind [\fI\-\-silent\fP] [\fI\-\-ip ip_number/interface\fP] <\fIcommand arguments\fP>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The chbind utility executes a command, and locks the resulting process and its children into using a specific IP number/Interface, no matter what it is told in it's configuration. This applies to services and client connection as well.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-\-ip\fR ip_number/interface
Binds the process to the given IP number or Interface. If an interface
is supplied (for example eth0), both the IP number and broadcast address
are extracted.
.TP 
\fB\-\-bcast\fR broadcast address
Binds the process to the given broadcast IP number.
.TP 
\fB\-\-silent\fR
Do not complain.

.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/usr/sbin/chbind\fP 


.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
If I wanted to ensure my httpd listened only on my eth0 interface, I could do:
chbind \-\-ip eth0 /etc/rc.d/init.d/httpd start
.LP 
Please contribute some, if you feel it's important.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
This Man page was written by Klavs Klavsen <kl@vsen.dk> and based upon the helpful output from the program itself and the documentation on the Virtual Server site <http://www.solucorp.qc.ca/miscprj/s_context.hc?prjstate=1&nodoc=0>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
chcontext(8) rebootmgr(8) reducecap(8)
vps(8) vpstree(8) vrpm(8) vserver(8)
vserver\-stat(8) vtop(8)
