.TH VSERVER 8 "October 24, 2007" "util-vserver" "System Administration"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
vserver \- The vserver utility enables you to manage the state of vservers, including building, starting, stopping, etc.
.SH SYNTAX
.B vserver
[\fB-s|--sync\fR] [\fB-v|--verbose\fR] [\fB--silent\fR] [\-\-] \fIvserver\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIargs*\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-sync\fR - Perform synchronization with vshelper to ensure that the guest has been stopped
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR - Makes things a lot louder.
.TP
\fB\-\-silent\fR - Removes most informative messages.
.TP
\fIvserver\fR - The name of a vserver.
.TP
\fIcommand\fR - One of the commands listed below.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR 
.IP
provides additional help for provided \fIcommand\fR, for example: vserver - build --help
\fIargs\fR are the arguments that are possible for the different commands, see the
arguments for each \fIcommand\fR listed below
.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP
\fBstart\fR [\fB\-\-rescue\fR [\fB\-\-rescue\-init\fR] \fIprogram args\fR] 
.IP
\&Starts the specified vserver. The optional argument \fB--rescue\fR starts the
vserver in rescue mode, which runs \fIprogram args*\fR to start the vserver
instead of whatever is configured. The optional argument \fB--rescue-init\fR
makes the command appear as PID 1 in the vserver. This can be used to start
/bin/bash to investigate why a vserver is not able to start correctly.
.TP
\fBstop\fR [\fB\-\-rescue\-init\fR]
.IP
\&Stops the specified vserver, and kills the remaining processes. The optional
argument \fB--rescue-init\fR can be used to stop a vserver that was started
with the option of the same name.
.TP
\fBrestart\fR
.IP
\&Restarts the specified vserver. This is the subsequent execution of a
synchronized 'stop' and a 'start'.
.TP
\fBcondrestart\fR
.IP
\&Restarts a running vserver.
.TP
\fBsuexec\fR \fIuser\fR \fIprogram args*\fR
.IP
\&Executes \fIprogram args*\fR as the specified \fIuser\fR in the vserver.
.TP
\fBexec\fR \fIprogram args*\fR
.IP
\&Executes \fIprogram args*\fR as the root user in the vserver.
.TP
\fBenter\fR
.IP
\&Executes the configured shell (default: /bin/bash if it exists) in the
vserver and allocates a pty.
.TP
\fBchkconfig\fR \fIchkconfig\-options*\fR
.IP
\&Modifies the init\-system; currently, only Red Hat's \fBchkconfig\fR is
supported.
.TP
\fBrunning\fR
.IP
\&Returns an exit code of 0 iff the vserver is running, 1 if not.
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
.IP
\&Provides some human readable status information about the vserver, and
succeeds iff the vserver is running.
.TP
\fBbuild\fR \fIbuildopts*\fR
.IP
\&Create a vserver from scratch, where the \fIbuildopts*\fR are a set of
options and a build method. As this option calls vserver-build, please see
vserver-build(8) for a complete listing of possible options and methods.
.TP
\fBdelete\fR
.IP
\&Remove a vserver.
.TP
\fBunify\fR [\fB\-R\fR] [\fIvunify\-opts*\fR]
.IP
\&Unify or de-unify the vserver with its reference vserver(s).
.TP
\fBpkg install\fR \fIpkg*\fR
.IP
\&Installs package(s) \fIpkg\fR in the vserver.
.TP
\fBapt\-get,apt\-config,apt\-cache\fR \fIapt\-opts*\fR
.IP
\&Execute the apt\-* command for the given vserver
.TP
\fBrpm\fR \fIrpm\-opts*\fR
.IP
\&Execute the \fBrpm\fR command for the given vserver.
.TP
\fBpkgmgmt\fR \fBexternalize\fR|\fBinternalize\fR [\fB\-y\fR]
.IP
\&Externalize or internalize the package\-management for the given vserver.
\'Externalize' means that package metadata and management tools (apt\-get,rpm)
are living in the host, while 'internalize' means that data and programs from
the vserver will be used.
.TP
\fBhashify\fR
.IP
\&Hashify the vserver.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/usr/sbin/vserver\fP 
.P
\fI/etc/vservers/*\fP 
.P
.P
\fI/var/lib/vservers/*\fP 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
Please contribute some, if you feel it's important.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
This man page was written by Micah Anderson <micah@debian.org> and based upon the helpful output from the program itself.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
chbind(8) chcontext(8)
rebootmgr(8) reducecap(8)
vps(8) vpstree(8)
vrpm(8)
vserver\-build(8)
vserver\-stat(8) 
vtop(8)
