.TH "newvserver" "8" "0.1.0" "Jacques Gelinas <jack@solucorp.qc.ca>" "System Administration"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
newvserver \- The newvserver is an interactive tool to create new vservers.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
newvserver [ options ]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
newvserver \- The newvserver creates new vservers interactivly. It provides
a graphical user interface as well as a text user interface. You can
configure most aspect of the vserver (name, description, hostname, IP number,
root password, ...), select a source and then perform the creation.

A vserver may be created by cloning another one, cloning the root server
or by performing a minimal installation from a distribution CD (RedHat
supported so far).

.SH "Default values"
.LP
The file /etc/vservers/newvserver.defaults is sourced to get default
input value for many fields. If you are creating many vservers
(you will :-) ), you may want to edit this file and enter suitable
values such as your domain name, IP network, etc...


.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP
.I --help:
Presents a summary of the options.
.TP
.I --name:
Set the name of the new vserver.
.TP
.I --desc:
Set the description.
.TP
.I --unify 1/0:
Turn on unification on and off.
.TP
.I --hostname:
Set the host name of the new vserver
.TP
.I --ip:
Set the IP number(s)
.TP
.I --ondev:
Install the IP numbers as IP aliases on device.
.TP
.I --clone:
Create the vserver from another one or a distribution CD.
.TP
The distribution CD are identified by special strings:
    #rh8.0m: RedHat 8 minimal
    #rh8.0f: RedHat 8 complete first CD
    #rh7.3m: RedHat 7.3 minimal
    #rh7.3f: RedHat 7.3 complete first CD
    #rh7.2m: RedHat 7.2 minimal
    #rh7.2f: RedHat 7.2 complete first CD

.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/etc/vservers/*.conf\fP 
.P
\fI/etc/vservers/*.sh\fP 
.P
\fI/etc/vservers/newvserver.defaults\fP 
.P
\fI/vservers/*\fP 

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
This Man page was written by Jacques Gelinas.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
vserver(8)
vserver\-stat(8)
distrib-info(8)
vbuild(8)

