.TH "vserver-copy" "8" "0.3" "Mark Lawrence <nomad@null.net>" "System Administration"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
vserver-copy \- copy/move a virtual server.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
vserver-copy [\fIoptions\fP] \fIvserver\fP \fInewname\fP 
.LP 
vserver-copy [\fIoptions\fP] \fIvserver\fP \fIhost\fP:[\fInewname\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
vserver-copy makes a copy of a virtual server using rsync. It will
rewrite the vserver.conf configuration file with the new hostname and
IP information when given. If the destination name contains a host
specification then ssh/rsh will be used for the data transfer.

vserver-copy can used on a running vserver, although naturally the
consistency of open database files and the like cannot be guaranteed.
A running vserver can however be safely moved from one root host to another
using the \-s flag.

If downtime is an issue when moving a virtual server across hosts you
should first run vserver without the \-s flag. This will pre\-populate the
destination filesystem requiring only updates to be made on the next
invocation.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR,\fB-\-help\fR
output usage information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-V\fR,\fB-\-version\fR
output version information and exit
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR,\fB-\-verbose\fR
show all output (normally only informational messages and warnings)
.TP 
\fB\-q\fR,\fB-\-quiet\fR
suppress all output
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR,\fB-\-domain\fR domain
the new DNS domain when changing name. Overwrites /etc/hosts. Must be
used with \-i
.TP 
\fB\-i\fR,\fB-\-ip\fR address
the new IP address when changing name. Overwrites /etc/hosts. Must be
used with \-d
.TP 
\fB\-r\fR,\fB-\-vsroot\fR
directory containing virtual servers. Defaults to "/vserver"
.TP 
\fB\-R\fR,\fB-\-rsh\fR
use rsh instead of the default ssh for network transfer
.TP
\fB\-s\fR,\fB-\-stopstart\fR
stop the virtual server before copying and start the new vserver afterwards.
This really only makes sense if you are copying across root hosts and not
changing names or IP addresses.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/etc/vservers/vserver.conf\fP 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
# Copy a template vserver (same IP addresses etc)

/usr/sbin/vserver-copy template web01

# Copy webserver with change in configuration

/usr/sbin/vserver-copy -i 192.168.5.62 -d example.com template web62

# Move a running vserver to another roothost

/usr/sbin/vserver-copy -s web62 roothost02:

.SH "BUGS"
.LP 
If a virtual server is moved from one root host to another a gratuitious
ping should be sent to inform other devices on the local area network
of the change in MAC address.

Without this ping the devices will continue to attempt to reach the old
MAC address for the length of their arp-cache timeout (10 minute default
on Suns!).

This functionality should probably be implmemented during the 
"vserver <name> start" process.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Mark Lawrence <nomad@null.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
vserver(8)
